!!!
Last Update on Jan, 2026.
!!!

# NIST Core Components

•	Govern (GV): Elevates cybersecurity from IT to a business imperative, linking it to financial and legal risk.
o	Organizational Context (OC): Defining the organization’s mission, stakeholders, and legal requirements.
o	Risk Management Strategy (RM): Establish overall cyber risk appetite and strategy
o	Roles & Responsibilities (RR): Clarifying who does what in cybersecurity
o	Policy (PO): Developing and enforcing cybersecurity policies
o	Oversight (OV): Monitoring and ensuring compliance with policies
o	Cybersecurity Supply Chain Risk Management(C-SCRM) (SC): Managing risks from third-party vendors
•	Identify (ID): Current assets and cybersecurity risks are identified and understood
o	Asset Management (AM): Identify all assets with their importance to the organization, such as and not limited to data, software, hardware, people, etc.
o	Risk Assessment (RA): Cybersecurity risks to the organization, assets, and individual are identified and understood.
o	Improvement (IM): Improvements to organizational Cybersecurity risk management process, procedure, and activities are identified across all CSF functions
•	Protect (PR): Safeguards implemented to manage cybersecurity risks 
o	Identity Management, Authentication and Access Control (AA): Access to physical and logical assets is controlled and limited to authorized assets.
o	Awareness Training (AT): To provide personnels with needed cybersecurity awareness and training to ensure understanding of the policies and to be able to perform their cybersecurity-related tasks.
o	Data Security (DS): CIA of all data forms, at-rest/transit/use is protected. Backups are created, protected, maintained, and tested.
o	Platform Security (PS): Protect the CIA of Hardware, Software and Services.
o	Technology Infrastructure Resilience (IR): Protect organizational resilience by managing security architecture.
•	Detect (DE): Provide the ability to find and analyze possible cyberattacks and compromises
o	Continuous Monitoring (CM): Ensure assets are monitored to find anomalies, indicators of compromise, and other potentially adverse events
o	Adverse Event Analysis (AE): Threat Intel from several sources is utilized to characterize events and detect cybersecurity incidents.
•	Response
o	Incident Management (MA): Responses to detected cybersecurity incidents are managed
o	Incident Analysis (AN): Investigations are conducted to ensure effective response and support forensics and recovery activities.
o	Incident Response Reporting and Communication (CO): Response activities coordinated with internal and external stakeholders as required by laws, regulations and/or policies
o	Incident Mitigations (MI): Contain and Eradicate Incidents
•	Recover (RC): Restore assets and operations affected by a cybersecurity incident.
o	Incident Recovery Plan Execution (RP): Perform the restoration activities
o	incident Recovery Communication (CO): Restoration activities are coordinated with internal and external parties
